.\" Martin Gregorie
.\" martin@gregorie.demon.co.uk
.\" 10 Sadlers Mead
.\" Harlow
.\" Essex CM18 6HG, 
.\" UK
.\"
.TH spc 1 "April, 2005"
.LO 1
.SH NAME
spc \- controls and monitors the serial port server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spc
.RB [ \-d ] 
.I -h=hostname
.I -p=port
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B spc
is a command line utility for monitoring and controlling 
the serial port server, 
.B spd
.SH OPTIONS
.in +5
.B \-?
.in +10
display summary help for
.B spc
.in -10
.B \-d
.in +10
display debugging output. This option may appear more than once,
each appearance causing debugging output to be more verbose.
.in -10
.B \-h=hostname
.in +10
Connect to the serial port server on
.I hostname.
The default hostname is
.I localhost.
.in -10
.B \-p=port
.in +10
Connect to the serial port server via a specified port.
The default is port 16001.
.in -10
.in -5
.SH COMMANDS
.in +5
.B status
.in +5
display the current operational status of a copy of 
.B spd.
The display consists of one line for each serial device described
in the configuration file for
.B spd
,e.g.,
.sp 1
.nf
ttyS0: Port /dev/ttyS0 Closed 9600,8,N,1 Dly tx=0 rx=2 mS nosep
.fi
.sp 1
The line shows the name used to reference the serial device, the
device type (
.I port 
or 
.I file
), the 
actual devicename, status (
.I open 
or 
.I closed
), baud rate, databits, parity, stopbits, mS delay between sent 
and received bytes, the line separator in use.
.in -5
.B stop
.in +5
Shut down the serial port server.
.in -5
.in -5
.sp 1
Several commands may be given as a list of command line arguments. 
If this is done they will be issued in sequence, so
.B stop
should be the last command.

